# High-Level Architecture 

## Introduction
KubeSlice is an open-source project that simplifies multi-cluster networking for multi-cloud, 
edge, cloud, hybrid-cloud, and bare-metal Kubernetes clusters. It is a vendor-neutral 
extensible framework to build flat overlay networks across heterogeneous Kubernetes clusters. 

KubeSlice enables and simplifies pod-to-pod communications for L3-L7 protocols across a fleet 
of clusters by using a construct called **Slice**. Each slice can be associated with a set of 
clusters with varying topologies and can be associated with one or more namespaces in each 
cluster. The pods in the slice namespaces can reach each other over the slice-specific flat 
overlay network. It can also be described as an application-specific VPC that spans across 
clusters. KubeSlice allows creating multiple slices across clusters with each slice having a 
dedicated set of namespaces in each associated cluster. It enables easy segmentation and 
isolation of applications using slices. It allows namespace-sameness across the associated 
clusters in a slice. KubeSlice brings with it software-defined, highly-available and secure 
connections across clusters using VPN gateways.

KubeSlice can also be used to enable service discovery and reachability across clusters. 
KubeSlice enables service discovery across the slice using Service Exports and Imports in 
each cluster. A slice-associated namespace service running in a cluster can be exported over 
the slice overlay network so that it is discovered and reached by pods running in other 
clusters associated with the slice. SliceDNS in each cluster can be used for FQDN based 
inter-cluster service-service communications across the slice. Slice DNS has service entries 
with overlay network IP addresses for service endpoints.

The KubeSlice architecture consists of several components that interact with each other to 
manage the lifecycle of the slice overlay network. The diagram below shows the primary 
components of KubeSlice and the connections between them.

![alt](/img/Architecture-OS.png)

The controller cluster contains the KubeSlice Controller that manages user configuration 
and orchestrates the creation of the slice overlay network between multiple worker clusters. 
It defines and owns a number of CRDs that are used to store configuration and operational 
information in the cluster. The CRDs are also used in the interaction between the controller 
cluster and the worker clusters. The worker clusters connect to the Kubernetes API server of 
the controller cluster to fetch configuration that is stored in the custom resource objects.

The principal component of the worker clusters is the Slice Operator. It interacts with the 
controller cluster and sets up the needed infrastructure for the slice overlay network on the worker 
cluster. The Slice Operator provisions the gateways and setup routing rules to funnel traffic 
between the application pods and the gateway pods.